--- PAGE 1 ---

Environmental 
policy 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Purpose 
HCLTech is committed to fostering a safe and sustainable environment through structured and accountable practices. This polic y outlines our environmental 
commitments and their impact on society and the planet. We extend our environmental responsibilities to our value chain partners, encouraging alignment with our 
sustainability principles to collectively reduce environmental impact.  
2. Scope 
This policy applies to all operations, facilities, employees, contractors, vendors, partners and stakeholders associated with HCLTech and its subsidiaries. It covers 
all activities under organizational control that may affect the environment, including pro ducts, services, and processes. The policy integrates environmental 
considerations into strategic planning and establishes organizational alignment with legal and other applicable requirements . It outlines our commitment to 
pollution prevention, sustainable resource use and continual improvement  
3. Policy Statement 
Top Management Commitment 
HCLTech recognizes its responsibility to future generations and its role in addressing global environmental challenges. We co mmit to proactively managing 
environmental impacts, risks and opportunities across our operations and value chain. 
 
Environmental Management Excellence 
HCLTech establishes a robust environmental management framework to guide environmental performance across its operations, ser vices, and products. Th is 
policy 
• Provides a framework for setting and reviewing environmental objectives and targets. 
• Ensures compliance with all applicable environmental laws and regulations. 
• Seeks to minimize the organization’s ecological footprint through responsible stewardship of natural resources, encompassing energy , water, waste and 
other environmental aspects, with a strong focus on efficiency and sustainable practices. 
• Advances sustainable procurement by prioritizing environmentally responsible sourcing and supplier engagement. 
• Supports sustainable sourcing by working closely with suppliers, encouraging responsible supply  chain practices, providing sustainability related learning 
and data sharing support, and using suitable platforms to track environmental performance. 
• Promotes environmental awareness and capability building by supporting sustainability related learning and training initiatives for employees and relevant 
value chain partners through appropriate internal learning platforms. 
• Prevents pollution and reduces waste by applying the principles of refuse, reduce, reuse, repurpose, and recycle. 
• Fosters environmental stewardship through local community engagement. 
• Promotes biodiversity within and beyond our operational boundary. 
 
HCLTech implements its environmental commitments through appropriate resources, systems, and controls by: 
• Leveraging advanced technologies such as Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, and data analytics to enhance environmental performance. 
• Embedding environmental requirements across procurement, operations, and supplier engagement. 
 
Environmental performance is monitored and evaluated against defined objectives, targets, and compliance obligations. Based o n performance reviews and 
evaluation outcomes, HCLTech commits to continual improvement of environmental performance through correc tive and preventive actions, strengthening the 
effectiveness of its environmental management system. 
 
Water stewardship and energy management are governed through their respective standalone Water Policy and Energy Policy, which outline specific commitments, 
targets and performance mechanisms aligned with HCLTech’s overall environmental sustainability objectives.

--- PAGE 2 ---

Objectives and Targets 
 
We establish measurable environmental objectives and targets, including: 
• Achieve net-zero by the year 2040. 
• 50% reduction in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by FY30 from the baseline year of FY20. 
• 80% of electricity usage to be from renewable energy sources by the year 2030 
• 42% reduction in absolute Scope 3 emissions by FY30 from the baseline year of FY20. 
• Maintain zero-waste-to-landfill at all owned facilities. 
 
Communication 
This policy is communicated organization -wide and made publicly available through official channels. HCLTech conducts training and awareness programs for 
relevant personnel and reviews the policy at least annually to ensure its continued relevance, effectiveness, and alignment w ith evolving regulatory requirements 
and stakeholder expectations. 
 
Governance 
The Board of Directors provides oversight of environmental commitments and related risks, supported by the  ESG and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (ESG & DEI) 
Committee, which ensures the allocation of appropriate resources and strategic direction.  
 
Grievance Mechanism 
HCLTech maintains a transparent grievance mechanism enabling stakeholders to raise concerns related to environmental manageme nt. Complaints are handled 
confidentially with timely acknowledgment, investigation, and resolution, ensuring non-retaliation. 
• Internal grievances may be raised through Incident Management – Occupational Health, Safety and Environment (IMSHS) 
• External stakeholders may raise concerns via whistleblower@hcltech.com or the Ethics Helpline (MyHCLTech → Top Ribbon → Ethics Helpline). 
4. Roles and Responsibilities 
Role Key Responsibilities 
Risk & Compliance Apex Committee 
(RCAC) 
 
Shall be responsible for providing necessary guidance to the Risk and Compliance function at HCLTech and 
ensuring oversight of risk and compliance operations across the organisation. 
Compliance, Legal and Operational Risk 
Council 
Shall be responsible for reporting and recommending actions on enterprise-wide risk matters to RCAC 
ESG & DEI Committee of the Board Shall be responsible for approving annual objectives and KPI set; overseeing disclosures, allocation of 
resources. 
Policy Review Board (PRB) Shall be the apex authority that reviews and approves HCLTech Policies as per the defined frequency. 
Corporate Sustainability  Provides support as subject matter expert 
GWS Function Shall be responsible for maintaining EMS controls in its area of operations; ensuring compliance with 
applicable environmental laws; monitoring KPIs; leading EMS audits and improvement projects, implementing 
operational controls, maintaining environmental permits, managing waste and contractors working under it; 
reporting of environmental performance to ESG committee. Shall prepare and update the Policy as and when 
required. 
Procurement Integrate environmental requirements and life-cycle criteria into sourcing and contracts; support supplier 
awareness, ESG-related training, and capacity-building efforts to strengthen responsible supply-chain 
practices  
Employees  Follow environmental policy & procedures strictly, report hazards/spills, and actively support environmental 
initiatives. 
Contractors Shall be responsible for adhering to HCLTech established policies and procedures; deploying competent 
workers at site; reporting deficiencies in equipment and processes to the concerned area owner; maintaining 
integrity. 
Internal Audit / Compliance Shall be responsible for Identifying non-compliance risks before regulatory inspections; Validating accuracy of 
compliance registers; Testing effectiveness of compliance monitoring mechanisms 
Any business function 
 
Shall ensure compliance with environmental policy guidelines through active participation in environment 
management and pollution prevention programme. 
5. Policy Development and Review 
Policies must: 
• Follow a standardized structure and template. 
• Be reviewed at least annually or upon regulatory/operational changes. 
• Include version control, approval records, and ownership details. 
 
6. Regulatory Linkages 
This policy framework supports compliance with: 
• ISO14001:2015 - Environmental management system.  
• GRI Standards - Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards   
• Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) - SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. 
•TCFD - Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (for climate risk governance and transparency) 
• SBTi - Science Based Targets initiative (for science-aligned emissions reduction targets) 
• CDP - Climate Disclosure Project (for climate and environmental performance disclosure)

--- PAGE 3 ---

The following internal policies support the implementation of this Environmental Policy, where applicable: 
• Water Policy 
• Energy Policy 
• Green Procurement Policy 
7. Non-Compliance 
Non-retaliation is ensured, and feedback supports continuous improvement. Compliance with this policy is mandatory. Non -adherence will result in appropriate 
action as determined by the organization’s governance and disciplinary/ authorized committee.  
8. Approval and Revision History 
Version From To Description Author Approved By 
Version From To Change description Proposed By Author Approved By 
NA       
       
 
9. Glossary 
Term Definition 
NA  
 
10. Owner of Policy 
Policy Owner & Custodian: GWS Department 
 
11. Approving Authority  
Approved By (Name, Designation & Signature) –  
C Vijayakumar 
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director | HCLTech 
 
Effective Date: 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
 
24th June, 2026 
C VIJAYAKUMAR 
CEO & Managing Director 
HCLTech 
 
 
 
  
QHSEE/EMSP/01 VERSION 15.0 
DOCUMENT NO: HCLT/QHSEE/EMSP/01 
VERSION 17.0
