--- PAGE 1 ---

Scope

This anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy (this "Policy") applies to all individuals worldwide working for all affiliates and subsidiaries of HCLTech at all levels and grade
(whether permanent, fixed-term or temporary), consultants, contractors, trainees, seconded staff, casual workers, volunteers, interns, agents, or any other person asso
Policy).
In this Policy, "Third Party (ies)" means any individual or organization you come into contact with during the course of your work for us and includes actual and potentia
intermediaries, representatives, subcontractors, agents, advisers, joint ventures, and government & public bodies (including their advisers, representatives and officials

Note: For the French translation of the policy, please refer to the policy provided in the Annexure section

Anti Bribery and Anti Corruption
Policy-Global
Latest Updated Date: 19 Jan, 2026
All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 2 ---

Policy Statement

Objective
HCL Technologies Limited ("HCLTech" or the "Company") is committed to the prevention, deterrence, and detection of fraud, bribery, and all other corrupt business pra
activities with honesty, integrity, and the highest possible ethical standards and vigorously enforce its business practice, wherever it operates throughout the world, of n
loudly a zero tolerance culture at HCLTech, whereby the Company maintains a solid reputation with its Third Parties spread across multiple industries.

Examples of bribery:
Offering a bribe - You offer a potential client tickets to a major sporting event, but only if they agree to do business with us. This would be an offense as you are makin
offense for the potential client to accept your offer.
Receiving a bribe - A supplier offers your cousin a job, but makes it clear that in return they expect you to use your influence to ensure we continue to do business wit
Bribing a government official - You are asked to arrange for an additional payment to be made to a customs official to speed up the administrative process of clearin

“Red flags” that may indicate bribery or corruption are set out in Annexure A to this Policy.
Employees or members of their immediate families (spouse, mother, father, son, daughter, brother, sister or any of these step- or in-law relationships, whether esta
should not provide, solicit or accept any bribe to or from competitors, vendors, suppliers, customers, or others that do business or are trying to do business with H
should be cordial, but must be on an arm’s length basis. Nothing should be accepted, nor should the employee have any outside involvement, that could impair, or giv
his/her duties or to exercise business judgment in a fair and unbiased manner.

1. Gifts & Hospitality
Providing clients with hospitality is acceptable provided the requirements set out in this section titled “Gifts and Hospitality” are followed.
To avoid committing a bribery offence, the gift or hospitality must:
be reasonable and justifiable in all the circumstances; and
have the intention to improve the image of HCLTech, better present its products and services, or establish cordial relations.

Please review the below examples of hospitality to understand what is acceptable
You invite an important existing client to attend a fine dining or a football match as part of a public relations exercise designed to cement good relations and enha
Answer: Yes. This hospitality seems to be reasonable and justifiable in all the circumstances and the intention is to improve HCLTech image, better present our produc
You invite a potential client to watch Wimbledon a week before the deadline for RFP opening for a large IT deal you hope to secure in order to persuade them to
Answer: No. This hospitality would constitute bribery as it would be made with the intention of influencing potential client to obtain business. The timing of this hospitali
entertain the potential clients without breaching the law. This is because the intention of the hospitality would be then to improve our image, better present our produc
client.
You are invited to be a guest of an outside company or person at meetings, trips, etc., usually overnight, that have an emphasis on recreation of some type. Is it
Answer: Your participation in such events should be limited only to those where a benefit to HCLTech is expected to result, and as much of your expenses as is possib
event should be in good standing with HCLTech based on prior performance.
A vendor has offered a five star, seven-day holiday package to Hawaii or Singapore for you and your family as a token of his appreciation. Can you go?
Answer No. Taking into account the reason for the gift, the value of the holiday is excessive and unreasonable in the circumstances. You should politely decline the gift
A potential sub-contractor delivers to your office a case of expensive wines a week before you are to make a purchase decision of his services or goods. Can yo
Answer No. The gift appears to have been made with the clear intention of influencing you to award the contract to the sub-contractor. You should return the case
assess the quote for the supply of services impartially with quotes you have obtained from other sub- contractors.

2. What is not acceptable under this Policy?
It is not acceptable for you (or someone on your behalf) to:
accept an offer of a gift of any size from any Third Party which is in negotiation with, or is submitting a proposal with us;
give, promise to give, or offer, any payment, gift, hospitality or advantage with the expectation or hope that a business advantage will be given or received or to
give, promise to give, or offer, any payment, gift or hospitality to a government official, agent or representative to “facilitate” or expedite a routine procedure;
accept or solicit any payment, advantage, gift or hospitality from a Third Party that you know or suspect is being offered with the expectation that it will obtain a b

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 3 ---

threaten, or retaliate against, another employee who has refused to commit a bribery offence or who has raised concerns under this Policy; or
engage in any activity that might lead to a breach of this Policy.
The points stated above are illustrative in nature and in no way intend to limit the applicability of this Policy.

2.1. Willful Blindness
If you willfully ignore or turn a blind eye to any evidence of corruption or bribery within your department and /or around you, it will be taken seriously against you. A
directly participated in or may not have directly benefited from, the corruption or bribery concerned, the willful blindness to the same can, depending upon the circumst

2.2. Facilitation Payments and Kickbacks
We do not make, and will not accept, Facilitation Payments or “kickbacks” of any kind.
“Facilitation Payments” are typically small, unofficial payments (sometimes known as “grease payments”) made to secure or expedite a routine government action by
Guidance on how to avoid making Facilitation Payments
Corrupt government officials demanding payments to perform routine government actions may often put you in very difficult positions.
There is no easy solution to the problem therefore. However, the following steps may help:
Require official receipts for any payments you make
Report suspicions, concerns, queries and demands for Facilitation Payments to the higher ups and to local enforcement authorities and refuse to make such pay

“Kickbacks” are typically payments made to commercial organizations in return for a business favor or advantage, such as a payment made to secure the award of a c
You must avoid any activity that might lead to, or suggest, that a Facilitation Payment or Kickback will be made or accepted by HCLTech. Facilitation Payments are kn
may be concerned that the inability to make them may cause difficulties in doing business in some jurisdictions, and that this may result in loss of income or contract.
The guidance set out below is intended to help support you in circumstances when you are asked to make Facilitation Payments.

2.3. Blackmail/ Extortions
We remain committed to our Policy of not making Facilitation Payments. The only limited exception to this is in circumstances where you or Third Parties are left with
loss of life, limb or liberty.
In the event that you experience such circumstances and make a payment, it is your responsibility to contact your Manager and can raise concerns by submitting y
after the event, so that the incident can be properly recorded, reviewed and accounted for with the authorities. Path: MyHCLTech >>Top Ribbon (Main Menu)>> Ethics
Employees based out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievance by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com.

3. Charitable Donations
As part of its corporate citizenship activities, HCLTech may support local charities or provide sponsorship, for example, to sporting or cultural events. We only make ch
practices and also within the corporate governance framework of the organization.

4. Political Activities
We are apolitical, advocate government policies on sustainability and don’t contribute financial or in-kind to political parties, politicians, and related institutions in any of
We do not make contributions to political parties, political party officials or candidates for political office.
Payment or use of corporate assets of any type as payment, directly or indirectly to any person, business, political organization, or public official for any unlawful o
political contribution on behalf of HCLTech, use any HCLTech resources to assist a candidate or elected official in any campaign, or coerce or direct another employ
incentives to, or otherwise bribe, any public officials in the hopes of influencing the decision of that individual.

5. Business Relationships
HCLTech expects all Third Parties doing business with HCLTech to approach issues of bribery and corruption in a manner that is consistent with the principles set ou
and ensure compliance with these standards, to continue the business relationship.
In order to maintain the highest standards of integrity, with respect to any dealings with a Third Party, you must ensure that:
You will conduct due diligence enquiries to review the integrity records of any Third Party before entering a commercial relationship with them;
You will fully document the engagement process and the final approval of the selection of any Third Party;
You will implement a program to provide appropriate information on this Policy to all Third Parties engaged in business relationship with HCLTech;
You will ensure that:
Each Third Party within your work area are fully briefed on this Policy, and have made a formal commitment in writing to abide by it;
Fees and commissions agreed will be appropriate and justifiable remuneration for legitimate services rendered; and
Contractual agreements will include appropriate wording making it possible to withdraw from the relationship if any of the Third Parties fail to abide by this
In the event that you have any doubt on the integrity of a Third Party, it is your responsibility to contact your Manager and can raise concerns by submitting your grieva
MyHCLTech >>Top Ribbon (Main Menu)>> Ethics Helpline.
Employees based out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievance by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com.
6. Offset or Similar Obligations
Many government contracts (particularly in defense / aeronautics sector) require companies to make offset commitments. The purpose of these offset commitments is

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 4 ---

Similarly, a government in a country or a particular state giving a grant or other facilities to HCLTech may require preference to be given to the residents of such countr
violate this Policy.
In case there is any doubt regarding compliance with this Policy at any stage of the transaction, you are strongly encouraged to raise concerns by submitting your griev
transaction. Path: MyHCLTech >>Top Ribbon (Main Menu)>> Ethics Helpline.
Employees based out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievance by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com.
7. What we expect of you
You, HCLTechie are the pillars of this organization and behind each HCLTech success story. You must ensure that you read, understand and comply with this Policy.
If you have doubts or concerns contact your Manager or can raise concerns by submitting your grievance in the Global Ethics Helpline. Path: MyHCLTech >>Top Rib
Employees based out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievance by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com.
The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery and other forms of corruption are the responsibility of all those working for HCLTech or under HCLTech’s control.
You must follow all the procedures laid out in other policies (available in the respective intranet portal) which help in anti-bribery and corruption due diligence on supplie
Parties.
You must notify your Manager, and can raise concerns by submitting your grievance in the Global Ethics Helpline as soon as possible if you believe or suspect that a b
in the future. Path: MyHCLTech >>Top Ribbon (Main Menu)>> Ethics Helpline.
Employees based out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievance by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com.
8.Record-keeping
You must ensure all expenses claims relating to hospitality, gifts or expenses incurred to Third Parties are submitted in accordance with our Business Gift and Entertain
expenditure. All accounts, invoices, memoranda and other documents and records relating to dealings with third parties, such as clients, suppliers and business contac
completeness. No accounts will be kept “off-book” to facilitate or conceal improper payments and the same is ensured through effective monitoring and auditing mecha
9.What are the governing legislations?
All national laws relating to bribery and corruption, especially such laws that are in place in jurisdictions where HCLTech has an office(s) or carries out its work, are of im
in this Policy particular attention has been paid to the requirements of:
The UK Bribery Act 2010 which entered into effect on 1 July 2011 (“UKBA”) and which has extra- territorial reach. HCLTech has substantial presence in UK, and
company conducts itself;
The Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act 1977 (“FCPA”). This Act is in effect in the US and it assumes extra-territorial effect. Adherence to its requirements is mand
Indian Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and Amendment Act, 2018 (“POCA”).

Legal provisions of these 3 Acts are detailed in Annexure B to this policy.
HCLTech has also assumed contractual obligations to its clients on its compliance with UKBA, FCPA and/or POCA.

10. Protection
Those who refuse to accept or offer a bribe, or those who raise concerns or report another’s wrong-doing, are sometimes worried about possible repercussions. We e
concerns in good faith under this Policy, even if they turn out to be mistaken. We are committed to ensuring no one suffers any detrimental treatment as a result of refu
in good faith their suspicion that an actual or potential bribery or other corruption offence has taken place, or may take place in the future.
If you believe that you have suffered any such treatment, you should inform your Manager or can raise concerns by submitting your grievance in the Global Ethics Help
Path: MyHCLTech >>Top Ribbon (Main Menu)>> Ethics Helpline.

Employees based out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievance by writing to whistleblower@hcltech.com.

11.Training and Communication
Training on this Policy forms part of the induction process for all new employees and will be required on an on-going annual basis for all current employees. Records o

12. Who is responsible for the Policy?
The Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility for ensuring this Policy complies with our legal and ethical obligations, and that all those under our control comply
Managers at all levels are responsible for ensuring those reporting to them are made aware of and understand this Policy, undertake training on how to implement and
The Ethics & Trade Compliance (“E&TC”)/ HR Team have responsibility for this Policy, and for monitoring its use and effectiveness (and dealing with any queries o
decide independently to achieve Objectives mentioned herein.
The policy clearly implies “zero tolerance” to occurrence of bribery and requires 100% compliance by employees.
Management at all levels are responsible for ensuring those reporting to them are made aware of and understand this Policy, and attend regular training on how to imp
You are responsible for the success of this Policy and should ensure you use it to disclose any suspected danger or wrong-doing.

13.Waiver and Amendment of the Policy
We are committed to continuously reviewing and updating our policies and procedures based on the learning. This is so even when HCLTech enters new market/secto

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 5 ---

The E&TC/ HR Team will monitor the effectiveness and review the implementation of this Policy, regularly considering its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness.
Any improvements identified will be made as soon as possible. Therefore, this document is subject to modification from time to time.
Any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Policy must be approved in writing by majority of members of Top Management.
The Policy will be reviewed and audited from time to time which requires cooperation from all concerned.

Consequences
Any employee who breaches this Policy will face disciplinary action, which could result in dismissal. We reserve our right to terminate our contractual relationship with
also result in imposition of large fines/imprisonment on the individual or the Company as the case may be or termination of contract with a Third Party.
Annexure
Annexure A
Potential risk scenarios: “red flags”
The following is a list of possible red flags that may arise during the course of your employment for HCLTech and which may raise concerns under anti-bribery and anti
for illustrative purposes only. If you encounter any of these red flags while workingfor HCLTech, you have responsibility to report them promptly to your Manager and ca
Ethics Helpline as set out in “How to Raise a Concern”. Employeesbased out of Germany/Netherlands shall continue to raise their grievance by writing towhistleblower
Menu)>> Ethics Helpline.
you suspect or become aware that a Third Party engages in, or has been accused of engaging in, improper business practices;you learn that a Third Party has a reput
or has a reputation for having a “special relationship” with foreign government officials;a Third Party insists on receiving a commission or fee payment before committin
function or process for us;a Third Party requests payment in cash and/or refuses to sign a formal contract, or to provide an invoice or receipt for a payment made;a Th
geographic location different from where the third party resides or conducts business;a Third Party requests an unexpected additional fee or commission to “facilitate”
entertainment, hospitality or gifts before commencing or continuing contractual negotiations or provision of services;a Third Party requests that a side payment (not an
legal violations;a Third Party requests that you provide employment or some other advantage to a friend or relative;you receive an invoice from a Third Party that appe
use of side letters (i.e. agreed terms in a letter or other document outside the written contract between the parties) or refuses to put the agreed terms in a written contra
fee payment that appears large given the services stated to have been providedThird Party requests or requires the use of an agent, intermediary, consultant, distribut
offered an unusually generous gift or offered lavish hospitality by a Third Partyyou become aware that a colleague, other employee or contractor working on our behalf
expedite an activity (such as an inspection or paperwork) or to “overlook” potential legal or regulatory violations
Annexure B
INDIA UK USA
Source of Law The Prevention of
Corruption Act 1988
("POCA")
The Bribery Act
2010

The Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act
("FCPA")

General
Description
of Act

The Prevention of
Corruption Act, is an
Act of the Parliament of
India enacted to
combat corruption in
government agencies
and public sector
businesses in India. The
act seeks to bring the
Indian
anti-corruption legal
framework in conformity
with current international
The Bribery Act
2010 criminalized
bribery, the
bribing of foreign
government
representatives and
the failure by
private
companies to
prevent
corruption. It also
The Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act (FCPA) is a
United States law that
prohibits U.S. firms and
individuals from paying
bribes to foreign officials
to further business deals.
The FCPA contains two
main articles: 1) the anti-
bribery provisions, and 2)
the books,
records, and internal
control provisions, which
speaks of

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 6 ---

practices laid down by
the United
Nations Convention
Against Corruption
(UNCAC).
As per the latest
amendment in 2018, the
punishment is enhanced
to make the law
stringent.
As per latest amendment
in 2018, the punishment
is enhanced to Minimum
punishment of 3 years,
extendable up to 7 years
with fine; from the earlier
6
months, with extension
up to 3 years.

made it an
offense to be
bribed. The act
applies to UK
citizens,
residents and
companies and
organizations
that are
incorporated in
the UK, or that
conduct business
in the
UK—granting
similar
extraterritorial
privileges as the
FCPA. The
penalties per
violation are
more
straightforward
and stringent.

accounting practices.
FCPA targets corruption
and bribery
internationally.
Corporations covered by
FCPA must devise and
maintain internal controls
to assure regulators that
their business
transactions are
accounted for properly.

Offense By public servants:
1. Accepting, obtaining,
attempting to obtain, or
agreeing to accept:
a) “gratification”, other
than legal remuneration,
as a motive or reward for
inter alia doing or
refraining from doing
any official act or
favoring or disfavoring
any particular person;
b) any valuable thing
without consideration or
with inadequate
consideration, from any
person who is concerned
General Offense
Bribing (s1):
Offering or giving
a financial or
other advantage
to a person:
- Intending to
induce them, or
another,
improperly to
perform a public
function or
The FCPA prohibits
payments of/offers to pay
bribes;
requesting/accepting
bribes is not a violation of
the FCPA (though
recipients may be
prosecuted under other
US laws).

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 7 ---

in any proceeding or
business transacted by
the public servant;
2. Obtaining money or
any other gratification as
a reward for inducing a
person erroneously to
believe that the official’s
influence with the
Government has
resulted in his obtaining
a “title” (i.e.
benefit) for the other
person.
By others:
1. Offering “gratification”
to a public servant.
2. Accepting, obtaining,
attempting to obtain,
agreeing to accept
“gratification”
in order to exert personal
influence over a public
servant.
3. Influencing a public
servant by corrupt
or illegal means, into
inter alia doing or
forbearing to do any
official act.
4. Abetting public
servants in committing
acts punishable under
the POCA (as set
out above).
business activity,
or as a reward
for the same; or
- Knowing or
believing the
acceptance
would in itself
constitute improper
performance.

Would
facilitation
payments be
caught?

Yes Yes No, Permissible under the
FCPA in narrow
circumstances.

Would
corporate
hospitality be
caught?

Yes Depends on intent No, Permissible under the
FCPA.
For example:
Promotional items of
modest value with
company logo; Snacks
and beverages at a trade
show; Reasonable
airfare, hotel, local
transportation and dinner

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 8 ---

in connection with facility
inspection.

Does the
offense only
apply to
bribing public
officials?

Yes No No
Does it have
extraterritorial
reach

Yes Yes (if committed
by a British
national, or
resident, a national
of a
British overseas
territory or a body
incorporated in
the UK)

Yes
Penalties
include:

- Imprisonment between
six months and five
years
- Unlimited fine

Individuals:
- Imprisonment
for up to ten
years
- Unlimited fine
Companies:
- Unlimited fine
- Debarment
from public
Contracts:
- A confiscation
order under the
Proceeds of Crime
Act 2002

I. Under the anti-bribery
provisions of the FCPA,
the following direct
penalties may be
imposed:

Against individuals: Up to
5 years imprisonment and
criminal fines up to
US$250,000 per violation
or 2x the
benefit sought through
the corrupt payment/offer,
civil penalties up to
US$21,410 per violation
and/or
restitution, in addition to
forfeiture or disgorgement
of ill-gotten gains.

Against companies:
Criminal fines up to
US$2,000,000 per
violation or 2x the benefit
sought through the
corrupt payment/offer,
civil penalties up to

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 9 ---

US$21,410 per violation
and/or restitution, in
addition to forfeiture or
disgorgement of ill-gotten
gains.

II. Under the accounting
and books
and records provisions of
the FCPA, the following
penalties may
be imposed:

Against individuals: A
criminal penalty of up to
US$5,000,000 per
violation or 2x the benefit
sought through the
corrupt payment / offer,
up to 20 years
imprisonment, and a
civil penalty of up to
US$192,768 per violation,
in addition to forfeiture or
disgorgement of ill-gotten
gains.

Against Companies: A
criminal penalty of up to
US$25,000,000 per
violation or 2x the benefit
sought through the
corrupt payment/offer,
and a civil penalty of up
to US$963,837 per
violation, in addition to
forfeiture or disgorgement
of ill-gotten gains.

Adequate
procedures in
place designed to
prevent bribery

A commercial
organization has a
statutory defense for any
offense committed by
persons associated with
such commercial
organization if it can
prove adequate
procedures had been
instituted to prevent such
conduct, in compliance
with guidelines to be
prescribed under the
POCA.
Defense to the
offense of failing
to prevent bribery.
Not a
defense to other
offenses but may
be relevant to
prosecutorial
discretion.

Having adequate
corporate procedures is
not a statutory defense
under the FCPA, nor is
failure to prevent bribery
a statutory cause of
action.
Having adequate
corporate procedures is,
however, a legal
defense to the charge
and may assist in
negotiations with the

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 10 ---

government or to mitigate
penalties.

Anti Bribery and Anti Corruption policy(fr-CA).pdf

Revision History:
Version From To Description Author Approved By
1 20 Dec
2011
28 Feb
2013
First Copy C&BTeam C&BHead
2 01 Mar
2013
28 Feb
2014
Revision C&BTeam C&BHead
3 01 Mar
2014
09 Dec
2017
Reviewed by
external counsel –
no changes made
HR Policy &
Compliance Team
HR Policy &
Compliance Head
4 10 Dec
2017
28 Feb
2019
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
HR Policy &
Compliance CoE Head
5 01 Mar
2019
21 May
2019
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
HR Policy &
Compliance CoE Head
6 22 May
2019
21 May
2020
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
HR Policy &
Compliance CoE Head
7 22 May
2020
14 Sep
2020
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
HR Policy &
Compliance CoE Head
8 15 Sep
2020
04 Jan
2021
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
General Counsel
9 05 Jan
2021
21 Apr
2022
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
Top Management
10 22 Apr
2022
31 Jul
2022
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
Top Management
11 01 Aug
2022
14 Jun
2023
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
HR Policy &
Compliance CoE Head
12 15 Jun
2023
12 Sep
2023
Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
HR Policy &
Compliance CoE Head
13 13 Sep
2023
- Revision HR Policy &
Compliance CoE
HR Policy &
Compliance CoE Head

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 11 ---

Glossary
The following definitions shall apply to these terms unless stated otherwise:
Term Definition
Bribe An inducement, payment, reward or advantage offered, promised,
or provided to any person in order to gain any commercial,
contractual, regulatory or personal advantage. It is illegal to directly
or indirectly offer a bribe or receive a bribe. It is also a separate
offense to bribe a government/public official
Anything of value and includes, but is not limited to: cash, cash
equivalents, gifts, inside information, sexual or other favors,
corporate hospitality or entertainment, offering employment to a
relative, payment or reimbursement of travel expenses, charitable
donation or social contribution, political contributions, abuse of
function and can pass directly or through a third party
Government/
Public Official
Employees and officials, whether elected or appointed, who hold any
governmental position, including legislative, administrative, or judicial
position of any kind; is a candidate for any governmental position; any
official or employee of a company wholly or partially controlled by a
government (such as state-owned companies); or an official in a
political party, in a country or territory.
Corruption The wrongdoing on the part of an authority or those in power through
means that are illegitimate, immoral, or incompatible with ethical
standards. Corruption often results from patronage and is associated
with bribery.
Facilitation
Payments
Small, unofficial payments (sometimes known as “grease payments”)
made to secure or expedite a routine government action by a
government official.
Kickbacks Payments made to commercial organizations in return for a business
favor or advantage, such as a payment made to secure the award of a
contract.
Keywords
Anti-bribery policy, Anti-corruption, Bribery prevention, Corruption prevention, Ethical conduct standards, Compliance, Business ethics, Code of conduct, Integrity, Tran
Conflict of interest, Legal compliance, Corporate Governance
Disclaimers
The company reserves the right to alter, append or withdraw this policy either in part or in full based on management's discretion along with Unions or Work Council ap
law of land to be adhered to prior to policy launch.

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)

--- PAGE 12 ---

Policy History
Version No. From To Reason for creation / updation Author
1 1 Apr, 2024 4 Sep, 2024 New Launch in Policy Studio Tanushree Vats(Ent HR-I&C-I&C-Pol
3 12 Sep, 2025 18 Jan, 2026 Policy has been revised as part of the annual review & revision with no changes proposed Tanushree Vats(Ent HR-I&C-I&C-Pol
4 19 Jan, 2026 Added the French translation in the Annexure section. Tanushree Vats(Ent HR-I&C-I&C-Pol

All rights reserved (No part of the document may be copied, reproduced, stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronically, mechanically, or otherwise without prior written
permission)
