--- PAGE 1 ---

1. Purpose
HCLTech is committed to providing a safe, healthy, and secure work environment for all stakeholders This policy affirms the
organization’s formal commitment to Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S), embedding safety, health and well-being into strategic
and operational decision making. The health and safety of employees remain a top priority, and the overall well-being of people is
fundamental to our success.
2. Scope
This policy applies to all HCLTech Operations, subsidiaries, premises, facilities, employees, contractors, vendors, partners, and
stakeholders. It encompasses all locations, activities, services, processes and workplace environments under organizational
control that may influence occupational health and safety.

The policy is aligned with the nature and scale of HCLTech’ s operations and reflects adherence to comply with all applicable legal
and other OH&S obligations. It provides a structured framework for setting and reviewing OH&S objectives, integrating safety
considerations into planning and decision-making at all levels.
3. Policy Statement
Top management Commitment
Top management at HCLTech is committed to achieving excellence in Occupational Health and Safety by providing leadership and
accountability to safeguard the health, safety, and well -being of all stakeholders. This commitment includes fulfilling applicable
legal and regulatory OH&S requirements and promoting a proactive and preventive safety culture across all operations.

OH&S Management Excellence
HCLTech strives for excellence in OH&S management through the following commitments:
• Ensure the health and safety of employees, contractors, visitors, and stakeholders affected by its operations.
• Fulfil all applicable OH&S legal and regulatory requirements.
• Identify hazards, assess risks, and implement appropriate controls to eliminate hazards or reduce risks to as low as
reasonably practicable.
• Prevent work-related injuries and ill health through effective preventive and protective measures.
• Integrate OH&S considerations into business decisions, operational planning, and workplace design.
• Encourage consultation and active participation of employees and contractors in OH&S matters.

Occupational Health
& Safety (OH&S) Policy

--- PAGE 2 ---

• Training, awareness, and capability -building initiatives are provided for employees and relevant value -chain partners to
support effective participation in OH&S practices.
• Establish emergency preparedness and response arrangements and ensure personnel are trained to respond to emergency
scenarios.
• Utilize appropriate technologies and systems to enhance monitoring and continual improvement of OH&S performance.
• Promote continual improvement of the occupational health and safety management system.

Objectives and Targets
Company establishes measurable OH&S objectives and targets focused on continuous improvement, risk reduction, and
compliance with global standards:
• To maintain lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) (Per 1 million-person hours worked) (Reported Annually) <1

Communication:
HCLTech promotes a culture of safety based on awareness, inclusion, and shared responsibility. The Occupational Health & Safety
(OH&S) Policy is communicated to all relevant personnel and made publicly accessible through official channels. Regular training
and awareness programs are conducted to ensure effective implementation. Employees, contractors, visitors, and other
stakeholders are informed of their obligations to exercise reasonable care for their own health and safety and that of others.

Governance
The Board of Directors provides oversight of enterprise-level occupational health, safety, and well-being performance, including for
employees and outsourced personnel. This oversight is supported by the ESG and Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (ESG & DEI)
Committee, which ensures the allocation of appropriate resources and strategic direction. The functional managers monitor policy
implementation, progress against objectives, and compliance with applicable OH&S requirements.

Grievance Mechanism:
HCLTech provides a transparent grievance mechanism that allows stakeholders to raise concerns related to this policy. Complaints
can be submitted through designated channels and are handled confidentially, with timely acknowledgment, investigation, and
resolution. The process ensures non-retaliation and supports continuous improvement through regular monitoring and reporting.
Internal complaints with respect to occupational health and safety can be raised through Incident Management – Occupational
Health, Safety and Environment ( IMSHS) while external parties may raise complaints through whistleblower@hcltech.com or via
the Ethics Helpline (MyHCLTech → Top Ribbon (Main Menu) → Ethics Helpline).
4. Roles and Responsibilities
Role Key Responsibilities
Risk & Compliance Apex Committee
(RCAC)

Shall be responsible for providing necessary guidance to the Risk and Compliance
function at HCLTech and ensuring oversight of risk and compliance operations across
the organisation.
Compliance, Legal and Operational
Risk Council
Shall be responsible for reporting and recommending actions on enterprise-wide risk
matters to RCAC, identification of applicable compliances w.r.t. occupational health
& safety.
ESG & DEI Committee of the Board Shall be responsible for approving objectives and setting KPIs; overseeing external
disclosures and stakeholder communications, reviewing performance.
Policy Review Board (PRB) Shall be the apex authority that reviews and approves HCLTech policies as per the
defined frequency.
Corporate Sustainability Provides support as subject matter experts.
HR Shall be responsible for ensuring employees comply with established policies,
procedures and guidelines, encouraging employees’ participation in training,
establishment of Health & Safety committees, taking suitable measures for
employees’ well-being and work-life-balance

--- PAGE 3 ---

Role Key Responsibilities
GWS Function Shall be responsible for Risk assessment, training, monitoring, reporting, implementing
controls, investigating incidents and taking corrective actions wherever needed. Shall
prepare and update the Policy as and when required
Functional Managers Implement established controls, provide cooperation in investigating incidents, led by
example.
Procurement Integrate OH&S compliance requirements into sourcing and contracts.
ESG-related training, and capacity-building efforts to strengthen responsible supply-chain
practices

Employees Shall be responsible for following safety procedures and reporting hazards/incidents through
appropriate channels.
Contractors Shall be responsible for following safety procedures, procuring work permits before
commissioning any high-risk hazardous work, providing personal protective equipment to its
workers, deploying competent & experienced workers suitable for the activity and reporting
hazards/incidents through appropriate channels.
Internal Audit / Compliance Shall be responsible for Identifying non-compliance risks before regulatory inspections;
Validating accuracy of compliance registers; Testing effectiveness of compliance monitoring
mechanisms

Any business functions

Shall ensure compliance with OH&S policy & guidelines through active participation in OH&S
management and safety and well-being programmes.

5. Policy Development and Review
Policies must:
• Follow a standardized structure and template.
• Be reviewed at least annually or upon regulatory/operational changes.
• Include version control, approval records, and ownership details.

6. Regulatory/Other Linkages
This policy framework supports compliance with:
• ISO 45001:2018 - Occupational health and safety management system.
• GRI Standards – Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards
• Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR) – SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015.
7. Non-Compliance
Compliance with this policy is mandatory. Any failure to adhere to its provisions will result in appropriate consequences, as
determined by the organization’s governance and disciplinary/authorized committee.
8. Approval and Revision History
Version From to Description Author Approved By
Version From To Change description Proposed By Author Approved By
NA

9. Glossary
Term Definition
NA

10. Owner of Policy
Policy Owner & Custodian: GWS Department

--- PAGE 4 ---

11. Approving Authority
Approved By (Name, Designation & Signature) –
C Vijayakumar
Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director | HCLTech

Effective Date:

24th June, 2026 C VIJAYAKUMAR
CEO & Managing Director
HCLTech

DOCUMENT NO : HCLT/QHSEE/OH&SP/01
VERSION 18.0
